The SPARC awardee requirement collection has been discussed in the context of DRC meetings with the SPARC management and the DRC CORE teams. Based on that the following approach has been chosen: i) a questionnaire is compiled that will guide the modeling need requirement collection, with a focus on aspects pertaining to the SIM-CORE; ii), that questionnaire is shared with other COREs to collect input, clarify potential overlaps, and further refine the questionnaire; iii) interviews are subsequently scheduled with SPARC awardee teams, in which the questionnaire serves as guide for the requirement collection (however, the discussion is driven by the ‘
specific needs of the awardee teams, which can require increased discussion depth in some areas, while other questionnaire topics might not be applicable); and iv) based on the interviews, additional information (publications, models) is requested from the awardee teams.

Topics considered within the questionnaire include xxx.

Extensive interviews have taken place with groups specifically pointed out by the SPARC management as being particularly large efforts with an already significantly present modeling component: xxx. Those interviews typically lasted in the order of two hours and were occasionally followed by further discussions. Contact with other teams and related requirement collection has taken place in the context of the SPARC November meeting (xxx), as well as a result of direct referral by the SPARC management of teams planning modeling related submissions to the SIM-CORE (xxx). However, these meetings were typically shorter and did not go through the full depth of the questionnaire topics. During the interviews, at least two experts were present. Following the interviews, the experts always had a follow-up discussion to identify potential areas, in which the current SIM-CORE vision might require adaptation
